JabRef is a citation and reference management tool that helps you collect and organize your research materials.
Here are the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

For each pull request made, it is required to fill in a checklist. The checklist looks for 6 points - Tests are created, manual testing is done, screenshots added if UI is to change, good git commit messages are written, documentation is updated, and the change is properly logged in the file.

I feel that this is a very good practice to remind developers to fulfil a certain criteria before requesting for reviews from the developers. This is especially useful for newcomers who are not familiar with the project's contributing workflow. In a way, this can also speed up the reviewing process as reviewers do not have to check for things that are already on the checklist so they can focus on ensuring good code is written instead. However, in JabRef, this checklist is commonly ignored and only certain bulletpoints are looked out for. I believe they can update this checklist to make it more relevant to both new and existing contributors. For example, the documentation status seems redundant as it is often expected of the PR author to update documentation when the code changes.

The tools used by JabRef are Codacy, Travis CI and [DEP](https://github.com/z0al/dep). CI does a good job in ensuring that the new code passes all tests, including integration and database tests. Codacy is mainly used to check for checkstyle issues. DEP is a bot that checks for PRs which rely on other PRs/issues to be merged before they can be continued. It becomes useful when many people are working on similar areas in the project at the same time. Developers become more aware that they are working in a group and close collaboration is often needed to ensure good code quality. This may be applicable to RepoSense's frontend development.

There is a Wiki page on JabRef that provides a lot of information on ways of contributing, such as [best code practices](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/wiki/Code-Howtos) used by JabRef specifically. As such, new code written can fit into JabRef's context easily. This is similar to the Developer Guide used in RepoSense. In future when more tools are integrated into RepoSense, notes on how tools RepoSense use can contribute to a better contribution workflow, may be written in the Developer Guide to teach new developers how to use these tools more effectively.

I did encounter some difficulties trying to set up the project, because it uses JDK8 and some deprecated libraries that cannot be resolved by IntelliJ. Since new JDK libraries are mostly used in development these days, using older libraries can slow down the setting up process and delay the time used to write actual code.  Furthermore, Git submodules have to be installed to use citation styles when viewing entries, but I feel that it is actually quite neat to be able to install additional libraries easily, without having to download another set of files during the development stage. Nevertheless, the [guidelines](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/wiki/Guidelines-for-setting-up-a-local-workspace) provided by JabRef are very easy to follow along. If one prefers learning by following instructions, a video tutorial is also available. 