## ⚡ Serverless Framework
---
[Website](https://serverless.com/framework) • [GitHub](https://github.com/serverless/serverless)

### Project documents
---
- [Contributing Guidelines][1]
- [Contributor Code of Conduct][2]
<!--
- [Versioning Guidelines][3]
- [Release Process][4]
- [Release Checklist][5]
-->

### Contributions
---
- [Indicate unused context in aws-nodejs-typescipt #5832](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/pull/5832)
- [Add stack trace to aws/invokeLocal errors #5835](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/pull/5835)
- [Fix service name in template install message #5839](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/pull/5839)
- [Add error message when provider does not exist #5964](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/pull/5964)

### Observations
---
#### Clear starting point for new contributors
Serverless provides a clear starting point for new contributors in the form of their [Contributing Guidelines][1], prominently linked to in their README.md. These guidelines cover the different ways to contribute (eg. PRs, feature requests, bug reports, documentation) as well as what to take note of before contributing, including testing and code style. Serverless also adopts a [Contributor Code of Conduct][2], which sets out to ensure a positive environment for contributors.

By providing these guidelines for the many ways to contribute, as well as adopting a code of conduct, Serverless signals to potential new contributors that their efforts are welcome and are of value to the project. The variety of ways to contribute also widen the circle of potential contributors, inviting non-coders to contribute as well.

#### No clear documentation on internals
One potential issue for new contributors would be the lack of documentation regarding the internals of Serverless Framework, an issue even [the maintainers themselves acknowledge](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/issues/3651). As such, I found it initally daunting to contribute, as the framework is a complex CLI application with 10 KLoC across over 1000 files. I eventually learnt through reading and debugging the code that the CLI was built for maximum extensibility, organised around the concept of different plugins that could affect any part of the framework while each plugin remained comprehensible on its own. 

This meant that the project was not as hard to contribute to as I first thought, however clear documentation regarding the design of the framework would have been immensely useful in reducing the learning curve for new contributors and avoid intimidating them. 

#### Specific and clear issue templates, aligned with error messages
Instead of having just a single issue template, Serverless has two: one for [feature requests][6] and one for [bug reports][7]. This allows Serverless to ask more specific questions related to each type of issue. For example, the bug report template asks for more specific diagnosis info such as version and operating system, which are not needed in a feature request. 

In addition, the error messages generated by Serverless are directly helpful to filling out the information needed in a bug report:
```
  Get Support --------------------------------------------
     Docs:          docs.serverless.com
     Bugs:          github.com/serverless/serverless/issues
     Issues:        forum.serverless.com

  Your Environment Information ---------------------------
     OS:                     win32
     Node Version:           8.15.0
     Serverless Version:     1.39.1
```

This helps to improve the overall quality of bug reports, as users will not be confused as to what specific questions in the bug report mean, as well as making it clear where users can get help if they encounter problems.

#### Clear communication of PR workflow
When PRs are being reviewed, they are clearly tagged as being `pr/in-review`, `pr/in-progress` or `pr/accepted`. This clearly communicates to contributors where their PRs are in the pipeline, and if any maintainer has taken a look at their work. This helps to ensure that contributors see that the project is active and valuing contributors' time, encouraging further contributions.

In addition, the [PR template][8] has a detailed todo list at the end, detailing everything a contributor should check and do before submitting the PR. This ensures higher-quality PRs with the correct information and content right from the beginning as contributors know exactly what they need to do to have their PR considered. It also reduces workload on the maintainers as less time needs to be spent on asking for the correct information in a PR and more on the actual review process.

#### Fast and helpful responses from project maintainers
Issues are tagged and responded to quickly by project maintainers, with most issues being tagged with the appropriate labels in a day or so. In addition, the PRs that I have submitted usually gets a response after a day, which is impressive. The communications with project maintainers have also always been encouraging and positive. In one case, a project maintainer responded to my query on how testing should be implemented in a component [by acknowledging that the test required was difficult, and wrote the tests himself](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/pull/5839#pullrequestreview-205206698).

The speed and positivity with which the maintainers respond to PRs and issues encourages new contributors, as they can see results and feedback quickly, as well as know that help would be provided by the maintainers and community if needed.

<!--
#### Documented versioning and release process
#### Testing on multiple Node.JS versions
#### Tracking of test coverage
-->

### Suggestions for MarkBind
---
#### Explicitly document contribution guidelines
Like Serverless, MarkBind can also have a starting point for contributors in a Contributing document which cover the different ways to contribute as well as what to take note of before contributing, including testing and code style. MarkBind can also adopt a Code of Conduct. This gives new contributors immediate ways to start contributing, and signals to potential new contributors that their efforts are welcome and are of value to the project. 

#### Create more detailed developer documentation
Like Serverless, MarkBind does not have detailed documentation on its internals. This may be intimidating to new contributors as they cannot clearly understand how MarkBind works before they start contributing. We should start creating more detailed developer documentation such that we reduce the learning curve for new contributors and avoid intimidating them. 

#### Have more specific issue templates and align error messages
MarkBind can also have a specific issue template for feature requests, which does not need diagnostic information like a bug report. We can also provide help information within our error messages itself like Serverless which can then be directly filled into a bug report template. This can help users and contributors to provide higher-quality bug reports with the required infromation from the start.

#### Have a PR todo list
MarkBind can also have a detailed todo list at the end of its PR template, detailing everything a contributor should check and do before submitting the PR. This ensures higher-quality PRs with the correct information and content right from the beginning as contributors know exactly what they need to do to have their PR considered. It also reduces workload on the maintainers as less time needs to be spent on asking for the correct information in a PR and more on the actual review process.

<!--
#### Track and target a good test coverage perecentage
#### Test against multiple versions of Node
-->

[1]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[3]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/VERSIONING.md
[4]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/RELEASE_PROCESS.md
[5]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/RELEASE_CHECKLIST.md
[6]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md
[7]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md
[8]: https://github.com/serverless/serverless/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md