The project I am working on is called Netrunner. It is basically the digital platform to play the card game Android: Netrunner, a game set in a dystopian, sci-fi future where MNCs control the world and a group of hackers attempt to hack into those systems for their own personal reasons.
There is a slack group for developers to ask for help or discuss improvements what improvements they want to add. Invitation is gained by submitting a PR. There is also a setup guide as well as some documentation located over at [/wiki page](https://github.com/mtgred/netrunner/wiki/Getting-Started-with-Development).  It has decent [documentation](https://github.com/mtgred/netrunner/wiki/Card-definitions) and [videos](https://github.com/mtgred/netrunner/wiki/Getting-Started-with-Development#videos-currently-behind-a-paywall) on how someone went through bug fixing. The [workflow](https://github.com/mtgred/netrunner/wiki/Contributing-New-Cards) is like most other projects – post in an issue if you want to work on it, then submit a PR when you’re ready. It goes through a review process and gets merged after if it passes. 
My main learning points from contributing to the project is learning how to use Clojure, a lisp-like language. Since Lisp and its variants are very different from the programming languages that I have learnt, some tasks in which I thought were easy to do has ended up taking days just to figure out what had to be done. However, through contributing to this project I’ve come to appreciate the use of Clojure in the macro level. While working on the project, it seemed like I was building the game in a language that was built to build the game, similar to how game companies build their own custom game engines for their games, this felt as if I was working on a game engine built to create Netrunner – yet that was obviously impossible, since the project was built on Clojure, not a game engine. Yet, due to the way the language used macros and virtual functions for metaprogramming, it felt like I was not working in Clojure, but a game engine built for Netrunner. 
Another important thing I learnt while working on the project was the importance of communication between all the members of the development team. The slack channel set up for Netrunner is the main source of communication for all developers, and thus everything goes into the channel, be it thoughts on future development/features, further insight into code snippets or questions on how to do X. Since everything is communicated there, it acts as a big source of motivation to work on the project as well, since you read about others implementing feature X and Y or fixing some bug, which really motivates me to do the same. Furthermore, discussions on what is planned helps developers to be involved in the future direction of the project. I feel that this is hugely important to help encourage new contributors to stay and continue on with the project, otherwise they would feel like they are just being used to implement new features / fix bugs that no one else wants to do and thus was assigned to them.
Thus, I think this would be a very helpful practice that teammates can adopt. This is particularly true especially since teammates (and other NUS-OSS project) gets a yearly infusion of people to work on the project, which no other open source project has. Due to this, teammates have grown differently from other projects. Since most contributors live in Singapore, many discussions on teammates happen offline, be it requests for help or new features. Sometimes, they occur in private slack channels. Despite Teammates's OSS policy (wherein it is said they they'd prefer to discuss everything openly, using the issue tracker as a forum) there are many things that don't go on there. Since they don't happen online, others can't find them if they're encountering the same issue. Additionally, because other developers don’t get to listen in on what the senior developers are discussing, it is harder for them to see the bigger picture. Losing this main channel in which all developers are included loses a lot of the motivation that people get when working on the project. It is hard not to feel as an employee of the project when all that is done is that you are assigned tasks to complete, in which after completion you are assigned a new task. You only get to see glimpses into a small part of the project. This difference in how teammates is organized, unlike other OSS, is what I think Teammates’s biggest problem is, and why it has such trouble in retaining people to work on the project. 
